README.md, before:

# relative-import-fixer

[![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)]()

## Demo

![Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JhoanVanDam/relative-import-fixer/main/demo/demo-working.png)

## Description

`relative-import-fixer` is a CLI tool for TypeScript projects that removes unnecessary relative imports and replaces them with absolute imports based on the paths configured in `tsconfig.json`.

It also checks for uncommitted git changes before running to ensure your working directory is clean and to prevent accidental loss of work.

This tool uses `ts-morph` to manipulate source code and automatically fix imports, keeping your code organized and easy to maintain.

---

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g relative-import-fixer
# or install locally in your project
npm install relative-import-fixer
```

---

## Usage

Run the command in your project root:

```bash
run-relative-import-fixer or npx run-relative-import-fixer or npm run-relative-import-fixer or pnpm run-relative-import-fixer
```

The script will prompt you for:

- The path to your `tsconfig.json` file (default: `./tsconfig.json`)
- The glob pattern for the TS/TSX files to process (default: `src/**/*.{ts,tsx}`)

Before execution, the script verifies that you have no uncommitted changes and that `tsconfig.json` has absolute paths configured.

---

## How it works

1. **Git status check:** ensures no uncommitted changes exist to prevent accidental work loss.

2. **`tsconfig.json` validation:** verifies that `compilerOptions.paths` contains absolute path mappings.

3. **File processing:** loads the specified TS/TSX files using `ts-morph` and finds relative imports.

4. **Imports removal and fixing:** removes relative imports that aren't Node.js built-ins or dependencies and repairs missing imports with absolute paths.

5. **Imports organization:** organizes imports in each file for clean and maintainable code.

---

## Main API / Functions

- `checkGitStatusAndExitIfDirty()`: checks git status.
- `hasAbsoluteTsconfigPaths(tsconfigPath: string)`: validates absolute paths in tsconfig.
- `verifyTsConfigFile(tsConfigPath: string)`: verifies tsconfig file existence.
- `fixRelativeImports({ globPattern, tsConfigPath })`: performs the import transformation from relative to absolute.

---

## Keywords

typescript, imports, import-fixer, relative-imports, ts-morph, code-transformation, cli-tool, nodejs, typescript-transformer, absolute-imports

---

## Used Dependencies

Thanks to the authors and maintainers of the great open source projects that make this tool possible, especially:
This project relies on the following main libraries:

- [ts-morph](https://github.com/dsherret/ts-morph) — TypeScript compiler API wrapper for source code manipulation.
- [simple-git](https://github.com/steveukx/git-js) — Simple interface for running Git commands in Node.js.

## License

MIT License © 2025 Jhoan Hernández

Commit message:

Add is side effect import validation and updating readme .md

README.md, after:

# relative-import-fixer

[![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)]()

## Demo

![Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JhoanVanDam/relative-import-fixer/main/demo/demo-working.png)

## Description

`relative-import-fixer` is a CLI tool for TypeScript projects that removes unnecessary relative imports and replaces them with absolute imports based on the paths configured in `tsconfig.json`.

It also checks for uncommitted git changes before running to ensure your working directory is clean and to prevent accidental loss of work.

This tool uses `ts-morph` to manipulate source code and automatically fix imports, keeping your code organized and easy to maintain.

---

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g relative-import-fixer
# or install locally in your project
npm install relative-import-fixer
```

---

## Usage

Run the command in your project root:

```bash
npx run-relative-import-fixer
```

```bash
npm run-relative-import-fixer
```

```bash
pnpm run-relative-import-fixer
```

The script will prompt you for:

- The path to your `tsconfig.json` file (default: `./tsconfig.json`)
- The glob pattern for the TS/TSX files to process (default: `src/**/*.{ts,tsx}`)

Before execution, the script verifies that you have no uncommitted changes and that `tsconfig.json` has absolute paths configured.

---

## How it works

1. **Git status check:** ensures no uncommitted changes exist to prevent accidental work loss.

2. **`tsconfig.json` validation:** verifies that `compilerOptions.paths` contains absolute path mappings.

3. **File processing:** loads the specified TS/TSX files using `ts-morph` and finds relative imports.

4. **Imports removal and fixing:** removes relative imports that aren't Node.js built-ins or dependencies and repairs missing imports with absolute paths.

5. **Imports organization:** organizes imports in each file for clean and maintainable code.

---

## Main API / Functions

- `checkGitStatusAndExitIfDirty()`: checks git status.
- `hasAbsoluteTsconfigPaths(tsconfigPath: string)`: validates absolute paths in tsconfig.
- `verifyTsConfigFile(tsConfigPath: string)`: verifies tsconfig file existence.
- `isSideEffectImport(importDecl: ImportDeclaration)`: verifies if the import is Side Effect Type ex:(import './index.css').
- `isPackageJsonDependency(importName: string)`: verifies if the import is from the packageJSON libraries.
- `isNodeBuiltin(path: string) `: verifies if the import is from the core of Typescript.
- `fixRelativeImports({ globPattern, tsConfigPath })`: performs the import transformation from relative to absolute.

---

## Keywords

typescript, imports, import-fixer, relative-imports, ts-morph, code-transformation, cli-tool, nodejs, typescript-transformer, absolute-imports

---

## Used Dependencies

Thanks to the authors and maintainers of the great open source projects that make this tool possible, especially:
This project relies on the following main libraries:

- [ts-morph](https://github.com/dsherret/ts-morph) — TypeScript compiler API wrapper for source code manipulation.
- [simple-git](https://github.com/steveukx/git-js) — Simple interface for running Git commands in Node.js.

## License

MIT License © 2025 Jhoan Hernández
